---
title: Fat Boy at 40?
layout: post
typora-root-url: ../
description: I recently turned 39 and I'm vowing to NOT be a fat boy by the time I turn 40.
date: 2023-08-29T17:42Z
category:
  - Fat Boy
---

{: .tldr}
I recently turned 39 and I'm vowing to NOT be a fat boy by the time I turn 40.


As of this morning (29 Aug 2023) I weigh 110.9kg (244lbs) and I'm 190cm (6' 3") tall. According to the [NHS' BMI calculator](https://www.nhs.uk/live-well/healthy-weight/bmi-calculator/), this gives me a BMI of 30.7.

**In other words, I'm obese, people.**

{: .notice}
I know BMI is a pretty poor indicator of health, but it's an indicator nevertheless, so I'll be using it as *one data point*. What's far more important is how I feel at the end of this process.


The NHS recommend that I should lose 5.6kg (12.3lbs) in order to get my weight into a more healthy zone. That's actually better than I thought, but I'd like to do better than that before I'm 40.

**I want to get below 100kg (220lbs).**

## Why lose weight?

I thought the answer to this question was obvious, but just in case, I'll spell it out:

* My blood pressure is starting to creep up - I need to reduce that
* Joints are starting to become painful
* My back is in shit state because it's lugging a rather large belly around all the time
* I sleep like shit
* **I want to be healthier**

## How will I do this?

I *could* go on a crash diet on lose 10.9kg (24lbs) over the course of a couple months. But that's probably worse for me in the long run, as I'll basically be starving myself and when I come off the diet, I'll go straight back to all my bad habits.

Instead, I want to make a number of life changes that will hopefully add up to a larger change, meaning I lose weight. I think giving myself a year to do this is realistic.

This isn't a diet. It's a lifestyle change, folks.

Ultimately it all boils down to eating less and moving more. My diet is pretty good already, but I tend to graze on snacks in the evening once the kids go to bed. That will have to stop.

I walk the dogs a lot, and I'm generally active looking after [our 2.5 acre smallholding](https://kevquirk.com/tagged/home-life), but I still need to exercise more. I'm too heavy for running at the moment - it fucks my knees - so I'll be cycling again, as well as doing small weights.

I was a PTI (Physical Training Instructor) when I was in the Army, so I actually have a lot of knowledge about all this - I just need to implement it.

I'll never have a six pack again. I'll never run a 10k in 40 minutes again. But if I can get to a point where I'm not *clinically obese*, where my belt buckle doesn't rub on my belly - making it sore (TMI?) - and where I'm generally fitter and healthier, I'll be a happy camper.

I'm planning on tracking all this, because, you know, I'm a nerd and I love data. I'm going to try and write regular (monthly?) updates here, which will include:

* General updates - what's been good, what's bad
* My weight
* My BMI
* My blood pressure

If you've gone through a similar journey, I'd love to hear about your experiences, and any advice you might have.

Wish me luck.