---
title: FediPoll
description: I'm going to be be having some fun on the Fediverse over the next few days/weeks. Please join in.
date: 2023-02-06T09:17:00.000Z
permalink:
typora-root-url: ../../
category:
  - Notes
  - Fun
  - Web
---

{: .tldr}
I'm going to be be having some fun on the Fediverse over the next few days/weeks. If you're comfortable doing so, please join in, as the more people who take part, the better.

## What is FediPoll?

Well, I have a fair number of followers on [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@kev), around 20,000 last time I checked. So I thought it would be fun to pose some questions to the fediverse, as polls. Then I could compile the results and see what kind of wonderful folk we have on the fedi.

This is all optional, of course, but the more involvement we get from the fedi, the more accurate the results will be.

{: .notice}
**Please note:** polls on Mastodon are anonymous, so I won't have any idea who voted for what option. I'm just interested in the results.

## What questions will I ask?

I have a few ideas, but I want to keep them high level and just a it of fun really. Here's some I had in mind:

* Do you use Android or iOS?
* What is your primary operating system?
* Where in the world do you live? (by continent)
* How old are you? (15-20 year increments)
* What is your sex?
* What is your salary? (in ranges - not sure if this is a step too far, so may not ask this one)
* What do you do for a living? (technical / non-technical)
* **Others? If you have any ideas, please use the reply button below**

All of these questions, and any others I ask, are all optional, of course. I don't expect anyone to answer a question they're not comfortable answering.

If you do answer them though, I think it could be an interesting perspective as to the the kinds of people on the fediverse. I'm sure we will get very small numbers of responses, so they will by no means be exhaustive, but they should, at least, be *indicative*. 🤷‍♂️

Every poll I post will include [#FediPoll](https://fosstodon.org/tags/fedipoll), so if you're reading this from the future and you think you've already missed any of the polls, search '#FediPoll' on your instance and you should (hopefully) see them.